it happened after this that the people
of Moab with the people of Amman and
others with them besides the ammonites
came to battle against Jehoshaphat then
some came and told you her she fought a
great multitude is coming against you
from beyond the sea from Syria and they
are in Hess's antemer which is Engedi
and Jehoshaphat feared and set himself
to seek the Lord and proclaimed a fast
throughout all Judah
so Judah gathered together to ask help
from the Lord and from all the cities of
Judah they came to seek the law when
Jehoshaphat stood in the Assembly of
Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the
Lord before the new court Oh Lord God of
our fathers are you not God in heaven
and do you not rule over all the
kingdoms of the nations and in your hand
is there not power and might so that no
one is able to withstand you are you not
our God who drove out the inhabitants of
this land before your people Israel and
gave it to the descendants of Abraham
your friend forever and they dwell in it
and have built you a sanctuary in it for
your name saying if disaster comes upon
us sword judgment pestilence or famine
we will stand before this temple and in
your presence for your name is in this
temple and cry out to you in our
affliction and you will hear and save
and now here are the people of Ammon
Moab and Mount Seir whom you would not
let Israel invade when they came out of
the land of Egypt but they turned from
them and did not destroy them
there they are rewarding us by coming to
throw us out of your possession which
you have given us to inherit our God
will you not judge them for we have no
power against this great multitude that
is coming against us nor do we know what
to do but our eyes are upon you
now all Judah with their little ones
their wives and their children stood
before the Lord then the Spirit of the
Lord came upon jahaziel the son of
Zechariah the son of benaiah the son of
giro the son of mattaniah
a Levite of the sons of Asaph in the
midst of the assembly listen all you of
Judah and you inhabitants of Jerusalem
and you King Jehoshaphat thus says the
Lord to you do not be afraid nor
dismayed because of this great multitude
for the battle is not yours but gods
tomorrow go down against them
they will surely come up by the ascent
of ziz and you will find them at the end
of the brook before the wilderness of
Giroux you will not need to fight in
this battle position yourselves stand
still and see the salvation of the Lord
who is with you o Judah and Jerusalem do
not fear or be dismayed tomorrow go out
against them for the Lord is with you
and Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his
face to the ground and all Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem bowed before
the Lord worshiping the Lord and the
Levites of the children of the
kohathites and of the children of the
kora Heights stood up to praise the Lord
God of Israel with voices loud and high
so they rose early in the morning and
went out into the wilderness of takua
and as they went out Jehoshaphat stood
and said hear me
o Judah and you inhabitants of Jerusalem
believe in the Lord your God and you
shall be established believe his
prophets and you shall prosper and when
he had consulted with the people he
appointed those who should sing to the
Lord and who should praise the beauty of
holiness as they went out before the
army praise the Lord for His mercy
endures forever when they began to sing
and to praise the Lord set ambushes
against the people of Ammon Moab and
Mount Seir who had come against Judah
and they were defeated for the people of
Ammon and Moab stood up against the
inhabitants of Mount Seir to utterly
kill and destroy them and when they had
made an end of
inhabitants of SIA they helped to
destroy one another so when Judah came
to a place overlooking the wilderness
they looked toward the multitude and
there were their dead bodies fallen on
the earth no one had escaped when
Jehoshaphat and his people came to take
away their spoil they found among them
and abundance of valuables on the dead
bodies and precious jewelry which they
stripped off for themselves more than
they could carry away and they were
three days gathering the spoil because
there was so much and on the fourth day
they assembled in the valley of Baraka
for there they blessed the Lord
therefore the name of that place was
called the valley of Baraka until this
day then they returned every man of
Judah and Jerusalem with Jehoshaphat in
front of them to go back to Jerusalem
with joy for the Lord had made them
rejoice over their enemies so they came
to Jerusalem with stringed instruments
and harps and trumpets to the house of
the Lord and the fear of God was on all
the kingdoms of those countries when
they heard that the Lord had fought
against the enemies of Israel then the
realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet for his
God gave him rest all around so
Jehoshaphat was king over Judah
he was 35 years old when he became King
and he reigned 25 years in Jerusalem his
mother's name was a Zuba the daughter of
shill hi and he walked in the way of his
father a sir and did not turn aside from
it doing what was right in the sight of
the Lord
nevertheless the high places were not
taken away for as yet the people had not
directed their hearts to the god of
their fathers now the rest of the acts
of Jehoshaphat first and last indeed
they are written in the book of G Hugh
the son of Hanina which is mentioned in
the book of the kings of Israel after
this Jehoshaphat king of Judah allied
himself with a hosea king of Israel who
acted very wickedly and he elide himself
with him to make ships to go to Tarshish
and they made the ships in easy and kiba
but Eleazar the son of DA Dava of
Marisha prophesied against Jehoshaphat
because you have allied yourself with a
Hosea the Lord has destroyed your works
then the ships were wrecked so that they
were not able to go to Tarshish